# COVID-19_Role_of_age
Code for: How asymptomatic SARS CoV-2 infection varies by demographics   

## Citation

How asymptomatic SARS CoV-2 infection varies by demographics   

…………

## Abstract

It is clear that asymptomatic individuals carrying SARS CoV-2 can transmit the virus and contribute to outbreaks of COVID-19, but it is not yet clear how the proportion of asymptomatic infections varies by age and geographic location. Here we use detailed surveillance data gathered during COVID-19 resurgences in six cities of China at the beginning of 2021 to investigate this question. Data were collected in Chinese cities by multiple rounds of city-wide PCR testing with detailed contact tracing, where each patient was monitored for symptoms through the whole course of infection. Based on the data from China, we find that the proportion of asymptomatic infections declines with age (coefficient =-0.006, P<0.01), falling from 56% in age group 0–9 years to 12% in age group >60 years. Using an age-stratified compartment model, we show that an age-dependent asymptomatic pattern and age distribution of cases explain most of the differences between locations in reported asymptomatic proportions. Combined with demographics and contact matrices from other cities worldwide, we estimate that a maximum of 22%–55% of COVID-19 cases would be generated by infections from asymptomatic cases in an uncontrolled epidemic. Our analysis suggests that risk of COVID-19 flare-ups are likely if only adults are vaccinated and that some age-balanced vaccination will be needed in the future.

## Notes on the code

To run, you need a Matlab toolbox called "DRAM": DRAM is a combination of two ideas for improving the efficiency of Metropolis-Hastings type Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms, Delayed Rejection and Adaptive Metropolis. This page explains the basic ideas behind DRAM and provides examples and Matlab code for the computations.(see http://helios.fmi.fi/~lainema/dram/)

About code folder: We used ”Fitting” folder to estimate the parameters for six cities (Shijiazhuang and Xingtai from Hebei province, Changchun and Tonghua from Jilin province, Harbin and Suihua from Heilongjiang province) in China respectively, “Simulation” folder to perform simulations in six cities evaluating the effect of initial values, contact matrix and age-structure on the reported asymptomatic proportion and “Global” folder to simulate COVID-19 trajectories for 150 countries across all continents using observed pattern from China paired with globally comprehensive covariates. The setting of the fixed parameters for each city and the meaning of each scenario can be found in the main text and supplemented material.

## Data

### The COVID-19 case data
For each city, the detailed surveillance data was collected from local Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, including the gender, age, and onset date. For each patient, the clinical endpoint (asymptomatic or symptomatic) was also collected.

### The global analysis

The country-specific contact matrices were obtained from previous study. The population demographics for 2020 were obtained from World Population Prospects 2019 and 150 countries were included in this analysis.
